What will you do in the face of Satan's attack?
Well, that's a relevant question for all of us here because without exception, we're
under a vicious, intense attack.
But the question is, as the battle intensifies in our individual cases, will we be able to
stand our ground, bravely fight, and come off victorious?
Well, obviously, your desire is to be victorious, isn't it?
You wouldn't be attending this special program.
But we need more than just the desire if we're going to ensure victory.
In fact, to win any battle, we need accurate knowledge of three things.
We need to know our enemy, know his strategy, and know what we have to defend ourselves.
Now first, let's talk about our enemy, Satan.
He is no ordinary foe.
Jehovah educates us regarding this enemy we're fighting.
For one thing, he's a premeditated murderer.
Look at what he did to Job's attendance, slaughtered them with marauder bands.
Others were consumed with fire.
Look at what he did to Job's ten children.
He murdered simultaneously, all ten of them, with a violent windstorm.
Yes, he's a premeditated murderer.
He wants to murder into everlasting death, every one of us here.
Now on top of this, he is highly intelligent.
As one brother said, he may be evil wicked, murderous, but he's not stupid.
He's highly intelligent.
In fact, think about this.
The fact that he was once in the truth makes him more intelligent in a sense, or we could
say clever, because he has knowledge of having been in the truth.
John 844, he did not stand fast in the truth, but he was in the truth.
Not to illustrate how this makes him more dangerous.
Think about a few of the false brothers during World War II who left the truth and joined
the Nazis in persecuting the brothers in the truth.
They had knowledge of who were taking the lead.
They knew where they lived.
They knew the strategy that was being utilized.
They were more dangerous, weren't they?
Well, the same with Satan.
Second Corinthians 1114 says Satan keeps disguising himself as an angel of light.
Now it's very easy for him to pretend to be what he used to be.
That makes him more dangerous.
Now, open up, please, to Revelation 12, very familiar Scripture.
But let's reason on this to help us further, not underestimate, underrate our enemy.
Revelation 12 verse 7, and war broke out in heaven, Michael and his angels battled with
the dragon and the dragon and its angels battled, but they did not prevail nor was a place
found for them any longer in heaven.
So down the great dragon was hurled, the original serpent, the one called devil and Satan, who
is misleading the entire inhabited earth.
He was hurled down to the earth and his angels were hurled down with him.
And then look at verse 12.
From this account be glad you heavens and you who reside in them.
Whoa, for the earth and for the sea, because the devil has come down to you having great
anger knowing that he has a short period of time.
Now, you notice he's not just mad, he has great anger.
Why is he so angry?
Well, for one thing, after he lost the war in heaven, he wasn't merely asked to leave
heaven and he quietly left.
We read he was hurled out of heaven and that denotes throne with great force, so that
undoubtedly added to his great anger.
But also think about this, the tremendous reduction of his fear of movement adds undoubtedly
to his great anger.
Before being cast out of heaven, apparently he had access to the vast, vast physical spiritual
heavens.
But now confined to the vicinity of this little tiny earth.
And if you think about it, not only does that make you mad, it makes you more dangerous,
doesn't?
Before being cast out of heaven, undoubtedly, he would try to turn away the angels part
of the time.
He would try to turn away human sea.
He was divided in his attention.
But now we have his undivided attention, don't we?
So that's bad for us and that makes him dangerous.
Here's another illustration about the increasing of the danger.
I'd like you to imagine that all of the Mafia members, all of the drug cartel members,
and all of the terrorists of the entire planet Earth were gathered up and were confined to
New York City.
The city limits and you live there too.
Now can you imagine the escalation of crime and evil that would take place there?
Additionally, we read, he's mad and angry because he knows his time is short.
Now if that's true, back around 1914, what about today over a hundred years later?
He knows his expiration date is almost here.
So he added all up.
His anger is truly really white hot, you could say.
And he has hordes of demon helpers, that makes him more dangerous too.
Do you think it would be possible for a demon to block one of Jehovah's good angels?
Well be careful how he answered that.
Daniel chapter 10, verse 13, talks about the demon prince of Persia blocking for 21 days
Jehovah's good angel.
Now how was that possible?
Well we don't know for sure, but perhaps the demon prince before becoming a demon had been
a cherub or a serif.
And maybe the one sent on the assignment a messenger angel.
Of course Michael came to help the good angel and he was able to get past that demon.
But that scripture in others helped us not to underestimate the demons.
We can't underestimate the ruler of the demons nor these demons that work under his supervision.
So adding it up, we find that Satan is a premeditated murderer.
He's highly intelligent.
He has great anger because of his great reduction of sphere of movement and because of his
expiration of time.
And he has hordes of demon helpers.
Now Jehovah's given us all this information.
Not to just fill up pages in the Bible, but so we are determined to recognize the enemy
we're up against and we're determined to fight even harder so that we can be victorious.
But now let's take a little time to get to know our enemy's strategy.
Again, thanks to Jehovah we're not in the dark are we?
Second Corinthians 211 so that we may not be overreached by Satan for we are not ignorant
of his designs.
Why are we not ignorant?
Well very kind of Jehovah is exposed the full spectrum of saints, designs, his strategies,
his maneuvers.
He's exposed all of them in his word, the Bible.
Now that's very kind of Jehovah, isn't it?
Very kind of Jehovah, even though the Bible was written, the completion of it over 1900
years ago, Jehovah 100 years, let's say after the Bible has been written, he doesn't come
to the realization, oh no, I forgot to put one of Satan's tricks in the Bible.
Oh no, my people won't be ready for it.
No, Jehovah has exposed every one of them say in his word the Bible.
Not two basic categories, does God's word indicate that Satan's strategies can be divided
into?
Well first we have the frontal attack.
Now that's characterized by banning, imprisonment, threats and acts of violence such as it was
used in our brothers in Malawi in the past and is being used today in Russia on our brothers.
And you don't have to scratch your head and say I wonder if I'm being persecuted.
And you have the frontal attack, it's obvious, isn't it?
It's clear, see, the frontal attack has this proved to be Satan's most successful method
of attack.
No, not really.
Here's just one experience of thousands that could be related to substantiate this point.
Now this experience centers around the 29 year old brother named August Dicman.
You probably remember this experience, but he was put in Soxon House and concentration
camp, 1937.
But then two days or three days after World War II began, 1939, he was ordered to sign
his military induction slip.
Of course he refused to do that.
Now the camp commander was furious.
So he got permission from Himmler, the head of the SS guard, to publicly execute August
in front of all the camp inmates.
And he arranged a special assembly after he got this permission.
And he had Jehovah's Witnesses right down front where they would get the full impact
of the execution of our dear brother.
Well after he was executed, all the other inmates were dismissed.
But Jehovah's Witnesses had to stay.
And with great enthusiasm, the camp commander said to the witnesses there, he said, who
is now ready to sign the declaration?
Well, not one of more than 400 witnesses responded.
But then to step forward, no, not to sign, but to ask that their signatures given about
a year earlier, the annulled.
What a slap in Satan's face.
And that really illustrates the poor success rate of this frontal attack.
And many other experiences could be related.
And it's certainly proving true of our brothers in Russia today, including elderly ones.
The frontal attack, a very poor success rate, slap in Satan's face.
But now what is the second category of strategy that sadly has claimed many spiritual victims?
Let's go to Ephesians chapter 6.
And here we can identify, in verse 11, this second category, put on the complete suit
of armor from God, so that you may be able to stand firm against the crafty acts of
the devil.
So notice that crafty sneaky, underhanded, devious, Satan uses these, and he's brought
down many away from Jehovah out of the truth.
These crafty acts remind me of an illustration years ago in one of our publications of a
soldier who was looking in the distance for the enemy to come over the horizon.
He was looking for the frontal attack.
But he wasn't looking in the rocks down by seat.
There was a poisonous snake lurking, and that powerfully made the point you have to watch
yes for the frontal attack.
But especially the snake in the rocks attacks of the devil that can really bring you down
without you realizing what has happened.
But Jehovah ushers us, we can succeed and try up things over both of these categories
of attacks.
In fact, Psalm 9, 113, a beautiful thought he says, and Jehovah ushers, you will trample
underfoot the main lion and the big snake.
And the inside book explains that apparently in that scripture, the main lion represents
the frontal attack, the open attacks of Satan.
Whereas the big snake represents the sneaky crafty acts of the devil.
But Jehovah says, you will trample both of them underfoot, so we can be successful over
both of them.
Well, what are some of these snake-like crafty acts?
Well, let's just discuss two examples.
Here's one, materialism.
Now this is brought down many elders, ministerial servants, pioneers, publishers, very successful
crafty act of the devil.
It's no coincidence that this world is powerfully geared to promote materialism.
Relentless advertising messages are designed to indoctrinate deeply the idea that acquiring
abundant material possessions and acquiring happiness are inseparably linked and directly
proportional.
That's really the message the world gives, isn't that true?
And if we're not careful, we can begin to think like this advertising messages wants
to think that we're a poor, poor loser if we don't acquire abundant material things.
So what can happen?
We can get sucked into this little by little.
We buy one item, no problem.
We can handle that.
We buy something else.
Well, now we need to work a little bit of overtime to make the payments.
We keep buying.
Now we need to take a second job.
Little by little we're missing meetings, service, less time for personal study, the more
important things, and little by little.
We could call Satan the God of gradualism.
We'll take us away from Jehovah by means of materialism.
Well, here's one more example.
Bad Association.
First Corinthians 1533, Jehovah says, do not be misled.
Bad associations spoil useful habits.
We might try to mislead ourselves.
Oh, I can handle it.
I'm strong enough.
Maybe I'll even bring this person into the truth.
Or others may try to mislead us.
But Jehovah says, do not be misled.
And then he gives the terrible consequences.
Think of this illustration.
If you lock a man and a skunk in a closet, when they come out, will the skunk smell like
the man?
Or will the man smell like the skunk?
Well, you know the answer.
And Jehovah knows he works the same way with bad association.
Well those are just two examples of crafty acts of the devil.
Many others, they're all exposed though, as we said before, Jehovah kindly has done
that.
But now think of this.
Think of this illustration.
If you're walking in darkness with a loving friend, and he shines at a flashlight on
a trap that is right in front of you.
Is the light of that flashlight removed the trap?
No.
It just shows you where it is.
Now it's up to us to go around the trap.
Isn't that true?
How foolish to go ahead and step in that trap that our friend has illuminated.
Well Jehovah is the friend in that illustration.
But we have to do our part, don't we?
Well we thus far discussed our evil enemy, his sinister strategy which Jehovah's exposed.
But now what do we have to defend ourselves?
One major component of our defenses is knowledge.
See what we've just discussed knowing our enemy, knowing his strategy, and then why is
they utilizing that knowledge, provides a real protection for us.
There's a saying to be forewarned is to be forearmed.
Similarly, Proverbs chapter 4 verses 5 and 6 says in part, acquire wisdom, acquire
understanding, and it will protect you.
But now additionally we have our spiritual armor, Ephesians 6, 12 and 13 says in part, that
we have a struggle against the wicked spirit forces in the heavenly places.
For this reason, take up the complete suit of armor from God so that you may be able
to resist and stand firm.
We've had some beautiful watch star study articles recently about each of those six
pieces of that armor and how we can put on and keep on each piece of the armor.
Without our armor, we are defenseless.
Maybe like a soldier on a raging battlefield dressed only in his underwear.
How long do you think he would survive minutes if that long?
And not only do we need the armor, we need every piece of the armor.
That's what Ephesians 6, 13 says, the complete suit of armor.
One piece of armor missing could be tragic.
Now let's illustrate this.
Let's say a soldier forgets to put on his boot like sandals.
He goes out onto this raging battlefield and he steps on a long, sharp thorn just as
he's attacked by an enemy soldier who is going to win.
Well, it's obvious.
We need every piece of the armor.
Additionally, an indispensable part of our defense system is Jehovah's Holy Spirit.
Backer I-46.
The thought is made not by military force nor by power, but by my spirit says Jehovah
of armies.
See, we don't fight this battle in our own strength.
We have to have Jehovah's Holy Spirit.
And if we have Holy Spirit, we're empowered by it.
If we think about it, there is no breaking point to our integrity.
You probably have heard the illustration of the straw that broke the camel's back.
And literally with a camel, you could keep piling more and more weight.
That finally, you could put so much weight just a little more weight, you could break
his back.
Say, you could do that to us, Cunning, if we were on our own.
But Jehovah knows when we've done our part, we've gone as far as our imperfect flesh
will take us.
And then he steps in and makes up any deficit.
St. Paul's more, Jehovah makes up the shortfall.
St. Paul's more, Jehovah makes us equal to that challenge.
And since Jehovah's the Almighty, there is literally no breaking point to our integrity.
In fact, one brother living in a band country refused to violate his Christian neutrality,
so he was stripped naked, forced to lie face down, and ruthlessly beaten for six hours
on his back and his legs.
Spectators fainted with so ruthless.
But yet here's what that brother said sometime later.
He said, regardless of the amount of insulting and beatings that we received, a few seconds
would pass.
And we would not feel anything more, even though the beatings continued.
We were feeling that Jehovah God was always with us.
Well, there we have three aspects of our defense system.
There are others, but we discuss we have God-given knowledge.
See, we know our enemy, we know his strategy, we know what we have to defend ourselves.
But then we have our spiritual armor, and we have Jehovah's Holy Spirit.
If we do our part, unquestionably, Jehovah always does his part.
And this combination is going to be uncarkable.
So as the battle intensifies, in our individual cases, we're not going to have to turn and
cowardly flee, we'll be able to stand our ground, we'll be able to bravely fight.
And with Jehovah's help, we will come off completely victorious in the face of St.